# DFT Embedded Potential Construction

By Chen Yilin

> [!Note]
> This document is converted from [Instruction_DFT_Embedded_Potential_Construction_English.docx](Instruction_DFT_Embedded_Potential_Construction_English.docx). Please check the original document if the format goes wrong here.

## Replace the corresponding files in PySCF (Be sure to backup the original files before replacing)

- Replace hf.py, uhf.py, rohf.py in the pyscf/scf/ path with the files
from step 0 folder.

- Replace rks.py, uks.py, roks.py in the pyscf/dft/ path with the files
from step 0 folder.

## Note

After replacement, the \"symmetry\" setting in PySCF will have a bug
that is not yet fixed.

The mol.symmetry = True setting cannot be used.

Symmetry must always be turned off.

All HF and DFT calculations in PySCF require three empty files named
hf_mo_occ.txt, hf_mo_occ_a.txt, and hf_mo_occ_b.txt in the input files
to avoid errors. If errors occur, add the corresponding empty files (see
section 3-2).

## Current Solutions:

1. Backup the original files before replacement, and replace them back
when symmetry calculations are needed. (Constructing the embedding
potential does not require symmetry, but calculations for individual
systems might).

2. Fix the bug, possibly in pyscf/scf/hf_symmetry.py and
pyscf/dft/rks_symmetry.py.

## Overall Steps:

1. Specify the \"embedding region\" atoms in the system, and the rest
as \"environment region\".

2. Perform DMFET with a larger smearing width (0.02 or other values,
testing needed).

3. Perform DMFET with a smaller smearing width (0.005), converge, and
check the final molecular occupancy numbers in the molden file, which
should be integers.

4. (Optional) For systems with degenerate orbitals or persistent
overlap between \"embedding region\" and \"environment region\"
orbitals, perform orthogonalization in the overlapping orbital space.

5. Construct the projection operator P based on the density matrices
dma and dmb of the \"embedding region\" obtained above, choose the
projection term Î¼, and complete the projection and final embedding
potential construction.

Note: Detailed comments are available in the example code, please read
them carefully. This section only explains the framework and basic
process. Read with the code and comments!

## Simple Flowchart:
![image](https://github.com/TheChenGroup/DFT-embedding-potential-en/assets/36528777/c0b65947-f850-4bd5-b726-25dd4c8c4c88)


## First Calculation Steps (Using Ethanol C2H6O as an Example):

3-1. Open the XYZ coordinate file and specify the atoms to be the
\"embedding region\" based on their line numbers (starting from 0).

Example: I specified atom 0 (Oxygen) and atom 8 (Hydrogen) as the
\"embedding region\", and the rest are automatically \"environment
region\".

Enter \[0 8\] in the example.

![image](https://github.com/TheChenGroup/DFT-embedding-potential-en/assets/36528777/670ac26e-e01f-43ee-a513-7b8f301ec043)


3-2. In the input file of section 1-1:

charge_A.txt and charge_B.txt contain the coordinates (XYZ) of the
\"Capping Charges\" added to the embedding region and environment
region.

hf_mo_occ.txt, hf_mo_occ_a.txt, hf_mo_occ_b.txt are empty files required
for all PySCF calculations. Ensure these files exist to avoid errors.

3-3. In the settings of \"step 1-DMFET.py\" in section 1-1:

For the first calculation, set isFirstOEP to True.

Adjust other parameters as per the detailed comments in the code.

3-4. Start the first DMFET calculation and check the output file of
section 1-1.

Check the OUT file 'Step 1 -- DMFET.out' which records the OEP iteration
![image](https://github.com/TheChenGroup/DFT-embedding-potential-en/assets/36528777/62a69375-2c89-461d-8750-457846ad9147)


Grad_max is the maximum absolute value in the current Gradient matrix.

W is the current functional value.

Max Abs Ovlp Value is the maximum overlap value between \"embedding
region\" and \"environment region\" orbitals.

N_iteration is the current OEP iteration count.

After this calculation, V_DMFET.txt stores the current embedding
potential Vemb.

## Continuation Calculation:

See section 1-2.

Copy the output files of section 1-1 to a new folder as the new input
files for continuation.

Change only one thing to continue the calculation: Set isFirstOEP to
False in \"step 1-DMFET.py\".

The smearing width value can be changed as needed, either keeping the
original value or reducing it.

Example 1-2 reduces the smearing width to 0.005, finalizes the potential
construction, and converges.

After this calculation, V_DMFET.txt stores the current embedding
potential Vemb.

## Orbital Orthogonalization:

This step is for degenerate orbitals or special cases requiring a large
smearing width.

Since actual examples are rare and the code is highly specific, it\'s
recommended to understand the principle and design and handle each
system individually.

Attached is part of the original code and data for NV centers:

The basic idea is to reconstruct the orthogonalized dma and dmb using
Reformorbitals.py and then perform OEP for the embedding region a with
the new dma.

## Orbital Projection:

Orbital projection is universal.

Use the output files of section 1-2 as the new input files, and run
\"step 3-Projection.py\" to complete the projection.

After this calculation, Vemb_with_P.txt stores the final embedding
potential with the projection term.

Thus, the DFT embedded potential construction is complete.
